---
authors:
- obiba
categories:
- releases
date: 2025-11-09
---

# Mica2 3.3 Released

We are pleased to announce that Mica2 3.3 is now available. [Mica](/pages/products/mica/) is OBiBa’s data web portal for epidemiological studies and networks.

This release introduces the following new functionalities:

- **Variables can be put in a cart**, either from the search page or from a single variable page. This allows the user (researcher) to
  perform several search iteratively in order to constitute a set of variables of interest. This set of variables can be managed, shared
  or used for processing (download, data exploration and much more to come).
- **Entities count analysis**, a feature introduced with [Opal 2.10](/pages/news/release/opal/2.10/) is now available in Mica web portal:
  from the cart of variables, some variables from collected datasets can be selected to perform a participant count analysis.
  This analysis gives the number of participants that are matching variable criteria from different datasets. In addition to know whether a study has collected data about a domain of interest (variable search), the researcher can also estimate the number of participants that
  would match its needs (for instance, *the number of women older than 50, being smoker and not having cancer*).
- **Mica R package** is now available for extracting from a Mica server the published content. This can be used to provide some
  metrics and reports on the data web portal content. See
  [Mica R Client documentation ](http://wiki.obiba.org/display/MICADOC/Mica+R+Client+User+Guide).
- **Mica Python Search command** is now available for extracting from a Mica server the published content, similarily to what can be get from the Mica R package. See [Python Search command documentation ](http://wiki.obiba.org/display/MICADOC/Search+Command).
- **Search query can be copied** from the search page in order to be reusable in R or Python utils. The query expresses criteria about any document type (variable, dataset, study, network) and can be applied to retrieve any document type (a key feature of Mica).

See [Mica documentation ](http://wiki.obiba.org/display/MICADOC) for installation and operation instructions.