---
authors:
- obiba
categories:
- releases
date: 2025-11-09
---

# Mica2 6.0 Released

We are pleased to announce that Mica2 6.0 is now available. [Mica](/pages/products/mica/) is OBiBa's data web portal for epidemiological studies and harmonization initiatives.

This Mica 6.0 release requires Java 21.

**Upgrade actions**:

- **Java runtime**: If the default Java installed in your system is not Java 21, you must install Java 21 (any vendor), update the path to the *java* executable in the file
  /etc/default/mica2, and restart the mica2 service.
- **Plugins**:
    - **Mica Search Plugin**: The latest Mica search plugin is downloaded on the first run of Mica 6.0. Update settings like clusterName and transportAddresses in site.properties file.
    - **Mica Tables SPSS** and **Mica Taxonomies Files**: Unzip the latest versions as directories under MICA_HOME/plugins and update their site.properties settingsaccordingly.

**Other new features**:

- Added configurable roles mapping from groups.
- Support for no search engine when using Mica solely for data access workflows.
- Addition of new permissions for different levels of variable summary visibility.

**Additional notes**:

  - **Important**: Mica 6.0 no longer has an embedded Elasticsearch. An external Elasticsearch 8.16.1 instance is now required.
  - Mica 6.0 requires Elasticsearch 8.16.1, older versions are no longer supported.
  - When deploying Mica with Docker, use Elasticsearch 8.16.1 as a Docker container for easy setup. See Docker Image Installation  for details.
  - The Mica API has NOT been modified: it will seamlessly integrate with **MicaR** and **Mica Python Client**.
  - Mica 6.0 is compatible with older versions of **Opal** and **Agate**.

More on Elasticsearch Installation

- As Docker Image 
- As Debian package 
- As RPM  package 

This release was possible thanks to the development contributions of Maelstrom Research.

See Mica documentation for installation and operation instructions.