---
authors:
- obiba
categories:
- releases
date: 2025-11-09
---

# Mica2 5.2 Released

We are pleased to announce that Mica2 5.2 is now available. [Mica](/pages/products/mica/) is OBiBa’s data web portal for epidemiological studies and harmonization
  initiatives.

This release includes the following new features:

  - 
    **Removal of Opal dependency ** as the main data provider:

      - 
        **Collected Datasets and Harmonization Protocols ** can now import their data from files or a generic data
        schema definition.

      - 
        **Taxonomies** can now be imported from YAML files.

  - 
    **Individual Studies** that do not have any associated variables can be annotated by taxonomy vocabularies.

The following main templates have been modified:

  - 
    **libs/annotations.ftl**: contains a collection of macros required to list annotations.

  - 
    **study.ftl**: addition of annotations section for individual studies only.

  - 
    **network.ftl**: addition of annotations section.

A quick note on entityAnnotations macro:

  Parameters to pass:

    - 
      **annotations**: list of annotations provided by the server.

    - 
      **showCount**: each annotation is comlpemented by the count of its corresponding individual studies (only
      useful in network pages).

  Here is a snippet to be used in the network.ftl:

  &lt;#if annotations?size gt 0&gt;&lt;@entityAnnotations annotations=annotations showCount=true/&gt;&lt;/#if&gt;

  This release was possible thanks to the funding of the [NFDI4Health](https://www.nfdi4health.de/en/), and to the development contributions of
  Maelstrom Research .

See Mica documentation  for installation and operation instructions.