---
authors:
- obiba
categories:
- releases
date: 2025-11-09
---

# Mica2 3.0 Released

We are pleased to announce that Mica2 3.0 is now available. [Mica](/pages/products/mica/) is OBiBa’s data web portal for epidemiological studies and networks.

To address specific research questions Mica 3.0 introduces a new epidemiological concept, the Harmonization Study, a research project harmonizing data across individual studies.

The main features are:

	- Creating and managing Harmonization Study documents.

	- Renaming of the following documents to better integrate the Harmonization Study concept:

			- Study to Individual Study.

			- Study Dataset to Collected Dataset.

			- Study Variable to Collected Variable.

			- Harmonization Dataset to Harmonized Dataset.

			- Harmonization Variable to Harmonized Variable.

    Mica upgrade
	
Before upgrading to Mica 3.0 it is imperative to first upgrade to **Mica 2.2.3** for proper data migration to take place. In addition, the following taxonomy changes can affect the current installations.
        To prevent conflicts or loss of data make sure your taxonomy vocabularies do not match the ones listed below. A possible safeguard against taxonomy conflicts is to prefix (do not use '.')
    custom vocabulary keys so future updates do not override them.

**New Study taxonomy vocabularies**

		- className: denoting the type of study document (Individual or Harmonization)

		- harmonizationDesign

		- populations-id

		- populations-name

		- populations-description

		- populations-dataCollectionEvents-id

		- populations-dataCollectionEvents-name

		- populations-dataCollectionEvents-start

		- populations-dataCollectionEvents-end

		- populations-dataCollectionEvents-description

**New variable taxonomy vocabularies**

		- studyId

		- populationId

		- dceId

    After upgrading, it is highly recommended to clear the Mica cache and rebuild all server indices for the search engine to work correctly.

See also [Mica documentation ](http://wiki.obiba.org/display/MICADOC) for installation and operation instructions.